[Music]
yeah but first of all I'd like to say a
happy birthday to everyone who is Rusted
Lee now we come to annoy me because like
I have much knowledge of rock chains and
such things although I speak in this
video so this is not only the folk
change at all but still is fun anyway so
let's get started so yeah so it's about
noise it's a church in a very search
enix
and quickly say yes yes I'm new to this
community you know so I might be run
this from geo and databases mostly and I
found in Python transcription rolling so
I spent the past seven years putting
homeland and a lot of the sauce
and yeah so noise it is an amazing
engine and it's heavily based on JSON
and it has indexing things you can
search things you can put them in you
can get them out and curry mechanism is
based on a system called pretty much
sampled from the 70s and probably
haven't heard of it before because like
it was the same time a sequel was
invented and I guess you know which
system won the war basically and but I
think it's plenty made and before I talk
more about the technical stuff I just
give a demo because there looks clear
what's going on so yeah so that demo
just shows kind of the curry language
and everything so I have a database
pre-populated with data and let's see
what's in there
so we try to find something and this
means this be everything and for now we
just yeah return like all the records
but we limit it to one so we because we
don't want to have a full dump of the
database in the browser so this was the
browser and so what we see here oh it's
a database of a CDE so it's about the
vulnerabilities and exploits and such
things and
as you can see is a JSON document and
now we want to deep dive into some some
things so for example we want to know
like how much data do I have in the
database so we just make return all the
documents and just return the account so
let's see
Oh eighty thousand so this is a dump
from like four weeks ago or something
and yeah you've seen already the if I
were International document like the
that's the whole document that was put
into there and of course I do not always
want to return the full document if I do
a query on the database I want to have a
subset only so and for a CVS the
interesting thing is normally really did
the ID so I just say okay give me the ID
so I say dot ID and I only get back the
ID and of course you can now like not
make sense it's kind of increase it and
see you now yeah so we have more like
many things in there so but of course
you all do not want it to a full table
scan all the time but it just want to
restrict it to some some properties so
let's say so there was I need to go back
and show you the fields so it has a
summary and as with exploits and so on
often the summary contains things like
stick obviously like stick overflows and
such things
oh thanks oh it is really caught by the
by the spell checking is nice so so I
want to search for all documents that
have in the summary the rod stick and of
course this time I don't want to have a
limit but just let me see how how many
they are actually like how many the
Albany those exploits contain the roots
take let's see oh I've like I come back
to Korea by example so basically what it
looks like so if I remove the operator
it means that this looks like proper
JSON and to basic make the query so you
build up your JSON like an example what
you want out and then you just put an
operator in front of the thing
Aquarion and this is take the full text
operator and I want to query and the
word stick so as you can see it's two
thousand documents and of course you can
also return the it's an ten limit 90s
doesn't matter so we have a closer look
on the on the documents so for example
there are even more interesting was in
total quite small ones but then there
are bigger ones which have a so-called K
pick type thing this is kind of like a
classification for all those exploits
that it is totally mad about it
it's interestingly closed circuits again
happiness to document with a lot of
information and as I said we can also
like to really query on a subset so
let's say I want all the the documents
which have both Sarge epic items so now
we get really into the pretty big server
so I want to have caping so I just said
okay I want to take a pic and as you can
see it's an array so it's just open the
array close the Reagan and within those
I have objects and now I want to query
on the solutions item so say solutions :
and I know I just - photos queries
because like that's yeah because it's
mostly fixed in those items so now this
looks like provocation again
and I put the operator in front of what
L searched for so to the use the Forex
operator and search for all the
solutions that contain browser so let's
see what sounds so now just to verify
that it actually works so a search for
browser let's see so here the solution
solutions contains browser
and but again it's like well I get like
the full full document but perhaps I
only really thought you can see that
whereas my browser here that I now have
this africanus browser but there's
another one and I probably would only
return really those items that contains
the key that where the solution contains
browser so that's simple it's called a
variable binding so I say use introduce
a variable just like a pig because it's
an easy name but it can also call it so
we have a difference K Pig
one two three and now I just returned
all the objects that match this clause
so I returned the K pick one two three
let's see what's happening so now you
can see if I search for browser the
solution is here
but now the document stops so you can
see that there's a new one starting and
as you can only like a single like a
solution which could have browser this
has two solutions which have browser in
the Indus two two classifications which
have solutions in the browser the
solutions and yeah and now of course you
can also really just return for example
the the solution itself so you can just
use the top donation
you know from JavaScript and say I
really want to return the solution only
solutions you guys clearly mention some
of the things so again it's a small
subset only but now you might think okay
now I have the solution but I don't know
like which seaweed was well that's again
simple so I just returned the seediest
also I you see and from the beginning I
had that thought ID thing and I returned
let's call a solve for solution identity
cause I call it soul for solutions
and we turn the chase on and now you can
see I have the CVE and the soulful
solution so that's kind of about the
Korean language to give you an idea like
like how the cruel English works like
because like that's the set of a part of
a system and I will now also like show
you the contrast attune to the like yeah
so the usage you say chase if you want
and there's not many mixing so I've only
research showed you the footage
capabilities but like Springs become a
full text index numbers you can enter a
ranges of example if they have a time
step you can search for all seasons
inside the state range and this were
mostly spent the last year on was that
if you have geo chasin in there if a
spawning officer and also geographies so
one day my cave a few months ago was
about without us so you search for
weather notes in your area in the
certain date range with the keyword rain
heavy rain and the technologies that I
use is so it hasn't JavaScript API but
the internal system is coded in rust
for those of you who have enough thrust
before it's it's fast and safe and I
would say this not the official thing
but I would say it's a badness in your
CMOS class like it has the full pile of
power of CEO suppose past but it's just
like better guarantees easy to code good
tool chain it's really great in coding
and the backend we currently used rocks
TV because it really fits the way we're
doing it pre well and for the geo Chris
I needed to for our rocks to be to
support the party dimensional indexing
so if you want to get about more about
multi-dimensional indexing talk to me
I've spent the past seven years with
itself
I know good about it and so how is this
different because now it gave us
the normal search thing I could just use
an X to search for it that's for sure
but it's different in a way that I
connect additional who take search less
exertion also gets a bit into a
different direction but often it's the
case that you first you have the data
then you create a mapping for an ADA on
how you put it into your full text index
and you kind of flatten your data
because you only really get it the text
fits out or something but as you saw on
the examples I really preserve the
chasers message so you really can vary
on a JSON structure you don't need to
create an mapping app form you can just
put it in and carry it then there's also
another thing with the document
databases that use kind of a secret
diary length to carry on JSON but the
polar idea is you often caught the
example I know is they introduce new
keywords and you kind of let in your
chase on for your curry because sequel
really works on tables this is what it
was built for and if you were going to
say so you need to somehow flip your
chase and in order we work with with the
sequel language but I didn't wanna like
white restored and chase it in first
place if you they need to flatten up
every time and yeah so as I said we
serve the structure for curry as well as
when you yeah for the queries and yeah
so finally I mean so this is kind of a
new style because what's the relation to
IPs and so the interesting thing there
might be overhead and not becomes
interesting so the first part is the
typical and talking it expound anyone
from the network I had in mind
disability or not so we talked about
like using at least the chrome language
to very like the analytic data structure
but I had like the day ago I had a cool
idea on how to do it differently from
what we've talked about and the other
one is I started the first one could use
the Crim language itself without the
underlying indexing kind of unity does
I'm so used to the syntax and my idea
would be that kind of ideas of the
underlying system for IV fssi ple which
kind of stores the whole it's kind of a
graph with small blocks connected
somehow to keep it simple what you could
do is of course this graph from Canaan
like it could be also a blockchain so it
doesn't really have any chase on your
index but think of you expose all those
blocks as JSON somehow so cannot create
a custom view of the data in JSON and
then you can use this chaser to query on
and you the queries currently really
work on the chest literature but in this
case for example you could handcraft
your cut off your query engine so what
agree with it is give you an example
your underlying graph is a git
repository and now you want to know our
commits from a certain author
so if poses is JSON and then the the
Korean chicken up will just traverse the
graph with all that any secondary index
instruction will just traverse the graph
and we turn you all the all the commits
from a Sonja offer of course it won't be
fast
yep trying to understand are you talking
about indexing oh no
in this case you would enix at all it
will be like a dynamic created view over
and you're like okay no it won't be
needing some it of course needs to miss
to expose some JSON and this will be
like note local but it's every node
exposes it it would probably just
reverse other words if you create so it
would be a pretty huge graph traversal
so this is really a this would be read
not about like high-performance charisma
browse but it will be just like to get
an idea or like have a list a way of
creating your graph without creating
custom infrastructure basically easy in
the sense that every node has therefore
yeah yeah and then you offer they so it
would be super store they wouldn't give
you and which is also kind of the idea
of OSS but you have a chance to kind of
like get information about what data is
in there and make sense of it and then
we can then use this a basis to write
more more different things for self and
the other way is this is what I prefer
is that you really use noise that
there's a whole system with the mixing
as local now on the system so you would
against utilize as before the data small
space on but then you really create an
index on every node with the chaser
later and then of course if you would
search you would need to ask all of
those for the query and see with
responses what we need but perhaps it
could again be in it and I feel the oids
already knows or can exclude certainly
no one's it knows ok
this is not definitely not doesn't in
the data I don't even query but that's
again like this is just a nine years old
pity if this happens I don't know what
but
it would be cool I think you cannot have
noise basically the search engine for
distributed IPs SOI peeled me notes
yeah so that's it yeah
so if you've any questions yeah and you
family now is you know roughly like no
technical details but they don't isn't
yeah
so one of the main problem of the first
version what is a search engine I don't
know about the second version that's out
now I think I using NTFS I don't know if
they have an integrated search engine
there there is another project of dual
search search on the hugglemas are so
it's not they haven't married the
solution yet so it's based on some
things to seem it out to that I guess to
this it's different okay it's a more
traditional search engine more like what
Booker and the correct I'm saying this
wrong is saying it's like giving it
every knows connects their own data and
as you can access all their notes
indexes because they are just about that
you can trust regret because you can
either do a traversal through a graph or
a transformation on a graph that you can
execute a locally might keep pulling in
those if you're putting all the other
indexes or you can just send these
transformations to other nodes and I
skip hey can you just formulated if you
walk away and get back to me the results
right - kind of a care a massive
synchronized database but I can't all
that if I still share that require you
to move every single global players the
same those things Whittaker but if you
were no that doesn't create a very big
problem of denial of service
you should not have that by defaulting
say start darling every single team is
note this is more as an imaginary qf a
very large organization organs at a club
rating with each other in data digital
archives like imagine Internet Archive
and I keep busy and Smithsonian and they
all have all these data sets and they
want to create a platform for the users
to scan through the internet sites very
efficiently they can using at the best
person share data and then noise or yeah
noise to like them to serve strong later
that they have been desk so far and
anyone in the community you can then
subscribe to those indexes and then we
can go back to the reputation mechanism
or any community can also contribute to
those indexes create new sources new
views new creations yeah I like the base
pieces to the point of noise and copy
another statistic is think it's really
like an embedded kind of thing and not
like a server solution so music if you
would create a service solution for this
thing you'll again have like this loop
on/off finish like you missed a spot
and this of course not money won and
yeah of course you could use the
existing solutions for such things but
I've done a few really one one like and
I like a single no realistic search or
you know what saw this thing this will
trap what's to be the sweet spot any
questions or comments
and it says so basically I okay I've
gotta said so so I was coding it for
short so this project is so small only
nice so this project was created like
two years ago roughly so it's together
mistaken cats the trade of custody and
we both were delayed for that past one
and a half three years together at full
time and it's available on github and
yes under Kitchener but he license and
yeah so this this critical language it
yeah
SP works okay just took it out it also
do basically an NPM install noise search
and then get started but be aware that
it takes a long time to compile your sac
Bay City so it's really not JavaScript
it's just a binding so it downloads
rocks to be composited comprise noise
and then you have the binding so it
would take a while but you can just get
started alright alright thanks
[Applause]